PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS LAW (EXPERIMENTS ON
     ANIMALS) 5754-1994

 PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO
ANIMALS RULES (EXPERIMENTS
       ON ANIMALS)
         5761-2001
      correct as of May 30, 2007

 PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS LAW
   (EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS) 5754-1994
                      CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION

Definitions
1.   In this Law -
     "prevention of cruelty to animals society" - a registered body corporate,
     the purpose and activity of which is the protection of animals, the
     prevention of their suffering and concern for their welfare;
     "animal facility" - a place where animals are raised for experimental
     purposes;
     "animal house" - the location and infrastructure, in which animals are
     kept before, during and after the performance of experiments;
     "animal" - any vertebrate, other than a human being;
     "kill" - killing an animal while preventing unnecessary suffering;
     "the Director" - the Director of Veterinary Services in the Ministry of
     Agriculture;
     "supervising veterinarian" - the person appointed as responsible for
     supervision under section 5(b);
     "qualified researcher" - the employee of an institution, whom the
     director of the institution authorized to carry out experiments on
     animals, and who was trained in the minimalization of suffering of the
     laboratory animals, as the Council prescribed in Rules;
     "educational institution" - an educational institution, within its meaning in
     the Compulsory Education Law 5709-1949;
     "institute of higher education" - an institution given recognition as an
     institution of higher education under section 13 of the Council of Higher
     Education Law 5718-1958;
     "institution" - a scientific, research, medical, industrial, educational
     institution or an institution of higher education, in which experiments on
     animals are carried out, including an animal house;
     "defense establishment" - the Ministry of Defense and its attached units,
     the Israel Defense Forces or any other institution that operates for a
     defense purposes and which, for purposes of this Law, was approved
     by the Minister of Defense;
     "experiment on animals" - an experiment on animals, for one of the
     following purposes:
     (1) the advancement of health and of medicine and the prevention of
             suffering;
     (2) the advancement of scientific research;
     (3) testing or producing materials or objects;
     (4) education and teaching;
     "veterinarian" - a veterinarian with a degree as specialist in the
     medicine of laboratory animals or a veterinarian whom the Director
     authorized for the purposes of this Law;
     "public servant" - a State employee or a municipal employee;
     "the Minister" - the Minister of Health.

                                  CHAPTER TWO: THE COUNCIL

Council for Experiments on Animals
2.  (a) A Council for Experiments on Animals is hereby established
          (hereafter: the Council); the Council shall have twenty-three
          members who shall be appointed by the Minister, as follows:
          (1) Six representatives of the National Academy of Science, of
                them two from the sphere of the life sciences or medicine,
                and four from the spheres of social science, liberal arts,
                exact science and law, one from each sphere;
          (2) The director of a school of veterinary medicine;
          (3) Two deans of schools of medicine or their deputies;
          (4) A representative of the scientific council of the Israel Medical
                Association;
          (5) A representative of the scientific council of the Israel
                Veterinarians Association, who is a veterinarian;
          (6) A representative of the Israel Manufacturers Association;
          (7) A representative of the Minister of Health;
          (8) A representative of the Minister of Education, Culture and
                Sport;
          (9) A representative of the Minister of Science, Arts and
                Technology;
          (10) A representative of the Minister of Justice;
          (11) A representative of the Minister of Religious Affairs; 1
          (12) A representative of the Minister of the Environment;
          (13) The chairman of the Committee on Animal Experiments in
                the defense establishment;
          (14) The Director or a person authorized by him;
          (15) Three representatives recommended by the roof organization
                of prevention of cruelty to animals societies, and when there
                is no roof organization - from among persons recommended
                by prevention of cruelty to animals societies.
    (b) The Minister may veto the candidacy of a representative, except
          for the representatives under paragraphs (2) and (13), if he is
          convinced that the appointment is liable to have a substantial
          adverse effect on the functioning of the Council.
    (c) If the candidacy of a representative was vetoed, then in his place
          the Minister shall appoint another, recommended by the same
          body, which the representative whose candidacy was vetoed
          represented.
    (d) The term of a Council member's service is four years; a Council
          member may be reappointed.
    (e) The Minister shall appoint one of the Council members, who was
          appointed under subsection (a)(1) to be chairman of the Council.

Termination of a Council member's term of office
3.  (a) A Council member shall cease serving before the end of his term
         of office when one of the following occurs:

1
    This power passed to the Minister of Health (YP no.5266 of 21.1.2004, p. 1643)

           (1)   He resigned by delivering a letter of resignation to the
                 Minister;
           (2) He is permanently unable to exercise his position or his
                 continued membership is liable to have a real adverse effect
                 on the functioning of the Council, and the Minister - after
                 consultation with the chairman of the Council - removed him
                 from his position by written notice;
           (3) He was convicted of an offense that, in the opinion of the
                 Attorney General, is heinous;
           (4) He no longer holds a position in the body, on behalf of which
                 he was appointed.
     (b)   When an indictment has been brought against a Council member
           for an offense which, on the face of it, is heinous, then the Minister
           may - in consultation with the Attorney General - suspend him
           from his position until final judgment on his case is handed down.
     (c)   If a Council member is absent from three consecutive meetings,
           then he shall cease being a member of the Council, unless he was
           absent because of illness or service in the Israel Defense Forces,
           or by written permission from the chairman of the Council, given in
           advance.
     (d)   When the term of office of a Council member has been terminated,
           the Minister shall appoint another in his place from the same body,
           which the member whose term of office was terminated
           represented.

The Council's functions
4.  The Council is in charge of the subject of experiments on animals, and
    without derogating from its other functions -
    (1) It shall prescribe Rules, with the Minister's approval, for the grant
         of permits to carry out experiments on animals, and on the way the
         experiments are to be carried out, all in order to ascertain that
         suffering caused to animals is minimized, and to prevent the
         conduct of superfluous experiments;
    (2) It shall prescribe Rules, with the Minister's approval, about training
         in the sphere of minimizing the suffering of laboratory animals;
    (3) It shall initiate information programs on subjects within the scope
         of its activity, as well as training and guidance programs for
         scientists on subjects connected to experiments on animals;
    (4) It shall prescribe Rules, with the Minister's approval, for the
         maximum number of experiments that may be carried out on one
         animal;
    (5) It may prescribe, with approval by the Minister and the Knesset
         Finance Committee, fees for applications and for permits granted
         under this Law; the amounts of the fees shall be used for the
         Council's activities and for other activities under this Law, and they
         shall be expended according to the Council's decisions.

Appointment of officers
5.  (a) After consultation with the chairman of the Council, the Minister
        shall appoint an employee of the Ministry of Health to be the
        secretary responsible for the Council's administrative work.

     (b)   After consultation with the Council the Minister shall appoint a
           veterinarian, who will be responsible for the supervision in
           institutions.

Visits by Council members
6.   Council members may - with permission from the chairman of the
     Council or according to arrangements prescribed by him - visit every
     place where experiments on animals are carried out, on condition that
     the Council members take the common precautions necessary in order
     to prevent interference with the experiment.

Meetings and procedures
7.  (a) The Council shall convene at least three times a year, and also at
         the demand of one third of its members.
    (b) A majority of Council members shall constitute a quorum for the
         approval of Rules.
    (c) The Council shall determine its own procedures, as far as they
         have not been prescribed by this Law.

             CHAPTER THREE: EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS

Experiments on animals
8.  (a) Experiments on animals shall only be carried out under this Law.
    (b) The number of animals in any experiment shall be limited to the
        minimal number required for the performance of the experiment.
    (c) Experiments on animals shall be carried out with close attention to
        minimizing the pain and suffering caused to them.
    (d) Experiments on animals shall be carried out as said in the
        Schedule.

Experiments on animals are prohibited where there are alternatives
9.  No permit shall be granted for the conduct of any experiment on
    animals, if the objective of the experiment can be attained by
    reasonable alternate means.

Experiments to test cosmetic preparations and cleaning materials
10. No experiment shall be carried out to test cosmetic preparations, unless
    it be for reasons of health, and to test cleaning materials.

Qualified researcher
11. (a) Experiments on animals shall only be carried out by qualified
          researchers at institutions approved by the Council, in accordance
          with Rules prescribed by it.
    (b) If a researcher carries out an experiment for a purpose other than
          teaching alone, then he must keep records according to a
          procedure, which the Committee set up under section 13 will
          prescribe, and when the experiment is concluded he shall report
          the results of the experiment to it.
    (c) (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), students at
                an educational institution or at an institution of higher

                education may carry out experiments in the presence and
                under the supervision of a qualified researcher;
          (2)   for the purposes of this Law, all educational institutions shall
                be deemed a single institution, the director of which is the
                Director General of the Ministry of Education, Culture and
                Sport.

Institutional permit
12. The Council shall have the authority to permit experiments to be carried
      out at an institution, for which all the following hold true:
      (1) the institution prepared a set of written guidelines, which obligate
           the employees and which was approved by the Council, on how
           animals are to be kept, on work procedures at the institution, on
           safety procedures, methods of anesthesia, the handling of
           animals, killing them, disposing of them in compliance with all
           statutes while paying attention to the prevention of damage to the
           environment, and on training for employees;
      (2) the institution employs a veterinarian, who supervises the health
           and welfare of the animals and provides medical treatment for
           them, is in charge of disease prevention, of the minimization of
           the animals' suffering before, during and after the experiments and
           - when necessary - their euthanasia, and who instructs staff
           members on these subjects.

Committee for the grant of permits for experiments on animals
13. (a) The Council shall appoint a Committee from among its members,
        which will be authorized to permit experiments on animals; it shall
        have at least three members, among them a veterinarian who
        shall serve as chairman, a researcher from the sphere of the life
        sciences or medicine, and a member who is not from the sphere of
        the life sciences or medicine.
    (b) An application to the Committee, for approval of an experiment,
        shall include, inter alia -
        (1) General information on the purpose of the experiment and its
               planned conduct;
        (2) A detailed proposal of the plan for the experiment;
        (3) Reasons why the experiment is necessary and possible
               alternatives, if available.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b), when the sole
        purpose of the experiment is educational, then the permit may be
        granted for the method of the experiment and its principles, and for
        any change therein.
    (d) The Committee is authorized to permit an experiment on animals
        after it considered the matter and concluded that it complies with
        the requirements of sections 8, 9 and 11, and with the Rules of the
        Council.
    (e) A permit may be granted by the Committee for a program of
        experiments that includes more than one experiment.
    (f) The Committee's permit shall be subject to the provisions of this
        Law and to the Council's Rules, which were prescribed
        thereunder.

Internal committee
14. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 13, a Government
          Ministry, an institution of higher education, an educational
          institution or institution approved by the Council for this purpose,
          may set up an internal committee, one of its members being a
          veterinarian, and for that institution it shall perform the functions of
          the Committee set up under section 13.
     (b) The committee shall act in compliance with the Council's Rules, or
          under internal rules, which the institution made for itself and which
          the Council approved.
     (c) The committee shall report to the Council every six months about
          the experiments it permitted.
     (d) If the chairman of an internal committee in a Government Ministry
          or in an institution of higher education concludes that - if an
          experiment is not carried out - there is an immediate danger to
          public health or to the health of animals, and that it is not possible
          to convene the committee urgently, then he may permit the
          experiment.

Supervision of institutions
15. The supervising veterinarian or a public servant whom he appointed for
    this purpose may - after he so informed the Council - enter at any time
    any institution and any animal facility, on condition that he take the
    necessary steps to prevent interference with an experiment, and he
    may read any document, in order to check whether the provisions of
    this Law are complied with.

Control Committee
16. (a) The Council shall appoint a Control Committee headed by the
         representative of the Minister of Justice, and the Director or his
         representative and a researcher from the sphere of medicine or
         the life sciences shall be its members.
    (b) If the supervising veterinarian or the public servant appointed for
         that purpose concludes that an experiment was carried out in
         deviation from the permit granted under this Law, then he shall
         recommend to the Committee that the permit granted to the
         institute or for the experiments be canceled or suspended.
    (c) After the Committee has heard the institution's arguments, it may
         cancel or alter the permit that was granted to the institution, and it
         also may set any condition it finds proper for the continuation of
         the experiments.
    (d) If the Committee concludes that - under the circumstances of the
         case - the provisions of this Law were severely violated, then it
         may order that the experiments be stopped temporarily, even if it
         has not heard the institution's arguments.
    (e) When a decision said in subsection (d) was adopted, then a
         hearing shall be held in the presence of the institution's
         representative at the earliest possible time and no later than seven
         days after the temporary decision was made.
    (f) After it has heard the arguments, the Committee may adopt a final
         decision on the matter.

     (g)   If the institution's representative did not appear, even though he
           had been duly summoned, then the Committee may decide the
           matter in his absence.
     (h)   Any person injured by a decision of the Committee may contest it
           before the Council.
     (i)   The Committee shall report its recommendations under subsection
           (b) and its decisions to the Council.

Reporting to the Council
17. (a) Once a year - and no later than on February 28 - an institution
         shall give the Council a written report about -
         (1) Particulars of the experiments with which it dealt in the
               course of the preceding year;
         (2) The name of the veterinarian employed by the institution
               under section 12(2).
    (b) An institution shall give the Council a written report about every
         special problem or mishap that occurred, as soon as possible after
         the event.
    (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a)(1), whoever
         reports to the Council about experiments under section 13(c) shall
         report only about the method, principles and extent of the
         experiments that were carried out.

           CHAPTER FOUR: EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS IN THE
                     DEFENSE ESTABLISHMENT

Committee on animal experiments in the defense establishment
18. The Minister of Defense shall appoint a Committee for Experiments on
    Animals in the Defense Establishment (in this Chapter: the Committee),
    which shall be headed by a veterinarian, and its members shall be a
    researcher from the sphere of the life sciences, a licensed physician
    within its meaning in the Physicians Ordinance [New Version] 5737-
    1976, a legal jurist, the holder of an academic degree in the social
    sciences or liberal arts, and a public representative who is not a state
    employee and does not engage in experiments on animals, who shall
    be appointed after consultation with the Council.

The Committee's powers
19. The tasks and powers of the Council and of the committees that were
    established under section 13 and 16 on all aspects of experiments on
    animals in the defense establishment shall be vested in the Committee.

Council Rules
20. The Committee shall, as far as possible, be guided by the Rules
    prescribed by the Council, but it shall be entitled to digress from the
    said Rules and from regulations made under this Law if it is convinced -
    by arguments that shall be recorded - that the digression is essential
    because of reasons of national security.

     Supervisor of experiments in the defense establishment
     21. (a) The comptroller of the defense establishment shall appoint a
              veterinarian as supervisor of experiments on animals in the
              defense establishment.
         (b) The powers under section 15, as far as they relate to experiments
              on animals in the defense establishment, are vested in the
              supervisor appointed under subsection (a) or in a person he
              appointed for that purpose.

        CHAPTER FIVE: PENALTIES AND MISCELLANIOUS PROVISIONS

     Maintaining confidentiality
     22. Any person who holds any position by virtue of this Law shall reveal any
         information or the content of any document which reached him by virtue
         of his position only by permission from the chairman of the Council; this
         provision shall not prevent disclosure on a demand from the Attorney
         General for purposes of a criminal trial, or on the demand of a Court.

     Penalties
     23. If a person committed one of the following, then he shall be liable to one
         year imprisonment, and in the case of a continuing offense - to an
         additional fine - at one half of the rate stated in section 61(c) of the
         Penal Law 5737-1977 - for every day on which the offense continues:
         (1) he carried out experiments on animals without a permit, or he
               digressed from a permit granted to him;
         (2) he disclosed information or the content of a document, in violation
               of section 22.

Transitional provision
    24. (a) The Minister shall appoint the first Council within ninety days after
               this Law was adopted by the Knesset.
          (b) The Council shall prescribe Rules within six months after its
               appointment; if the Council did not prescribe Rules by that date,
               then the chairman of the Council shall - with the Minister' consent
               and with approval by the Knesset Education and Culture
               Committee - make Rules in its stead.
          (c) This Law shall not apply to experiments on animals, which were
               begun before it went into effect, or to experiments on animals,
               which were begun before the Council's Rules under section 4
               were prescribed.

     Implementation and regulations
     25. (a) The Minister is charged with the implementation of this Law, and
              with approval by the Knesset Education and Culture Committee he
              shall make regulations on anything related to its implementation,
              including the determination of law procedure in appeals under
              section 16(h).
          (b) The Minister of Agriculture shall, in consultation with the Minister
              of Health, make regulations on keeping animals and caring for
              them in animal facilities.

The State
26. For the purposes of this Law, the State shall be treated like every other
    person.

NOTE: Section 27 amends various other Laws; here its translation is
   consequently omitted.

Effect
28. This Law - except for sections 24 (a) and (b) and 27 - shall go into effect
     one year after its adoption.

Publication
29. This Law shall be published in Reshumot within thirty days after its
     adoption.

                                 SCHEDULE
                                (Section 8(d))

1.   Experiments that cause pain or suffering shall be carried out only under
     local or general anesthesia or under analgesia; performance of an
     experiment under general muscle relaxation shall be carried out only
     together with general anesthesia, unless the use of anesthetics negates
     the experiment, or when anesthesia will cause greater suffering than is
     expected of the experiment; in aforesaid cases alternate methods for
     the minimization of pain and suffering shall be used.

2.   The kind of animals used in an experiment shall be limited to those on
     the lowest philogenetic level, which makes it possible to conduct the
     experiment without a negative effect on its objectives.

3.   If it becomes necessary to kill an animal after an experiment, then it
     shall be killed, as far as that is possible, before it regains
     consciousness; animals liable to or exposed to strong pain or prolonged
     suffering after the experiment shall be killed, even if the objectives of
     the experiment were not achieved.

      PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
       RULES (EXPERIMENTS ON ANIMALS)
                  5761-2001
By virtue of its powers under section 4(1), (2) and (4) of the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals Law (experiment on animals) 5754-1994 (hereafter - the
Law), and with the approval of the Minister of Health, the Council for
Experiments on Animals (hereafter - the Council) hereby makes these Rules
in order to ascertain minimization of the suffering caused to animals and to
prevent unnecessary experiments:

Definitions
1.   In these Rules -
     "The Committee" - the Committee that issues permits for experiments
     under sections 13, 14 or 19 of the Law, as the case may be;
     "Institutional permit" - a permit to conduct experiments issued to an
     institution, as said in section 12 of the Law;
     "NRC Rules" - the booklet "Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory
     Animals", published by the National Research Council of the United
     States (NRC), which is available to the public at the library of the
     Ministry of Health in Jerusalem, and on the Internet sites of the National
     Research Council of the United States and the Ministry of Health of the
     Israel Government, as updated from time to time;
     "Experiment" - the smallest possible series of acts performed on an
     animal, which is necessary in order to achieve the objective of the
     experiment;
     "Experiment that involves little suffering" - each of the following:
     (1) Biopsy or other small surgical operation without subsequent
            significant pain;
     (2) Keeping awake animals in movement restricting cages for up to
            ten minutes;
     (3) Behavioral experiments accompanied by minimal stress;
     (4) Installing small permanent implants;
     (5) Other acts, in the course of which no greater a level of suffering is
            caused, than in those said in paragraphs (1) to (4).

Institutional permit
2.    (a) An application for an institutional permit shall be submitted to the
           Council, in writing, by the director of the institution; the application
           shall include the name of the veterinarian employed by the
           institution as said in section 12(2) of the Law, and the set of
           guidelines required by section 12(1) of the Law shall be attached
           to it.
      (b) The Council shall grant the institution a permit, after it approved
           the set of guidelines that was attached to the application, and after
           it received certification from the Council veterinarian that - on a
           visit he made to the institution - he found that the conditions under
           which animals are kept at the institution comply with the
           requirements of section 4.

Permit for an experiment
3.  (a) An application for a permit to conduct an experiment on animals
          shall be submitted to the Council on the Form in the Schedule.
    (b) An aforesaid application for a permit for an experiment, shall be
          submitted by the principal investigator, who will be in charge of the
          experiment for which the permit is requested.
    (c) The Committee may demand additional particulars from the
          applicant, such as it deems necessary in order to decide whether
          to grant a permit for the experiment.
    (d) The Committee may grant a permit for the experiment as
          proposed in the application, reject the application or approve it
          with changes, on conditions or with restrictions.
    (e) The Committee shall grant a permit for an experiment only if it is
          convinced that the provisions of the Law and of these Rules will be
          complied with in the proposed experiment.

Conditions in the animal house
4.  Animals in an animal house shall be kept under the conditions specified
    in the NRC Rules.

Conducting experiments
5.  The NRC Rules shall apply to the following acts:
    (1) The acquisition and transport of animals;
    (2) The physical restraint of animals;
    (3) The identification of pain;
    (4) Tranquilization and anesthesia;
    (5) Euthanasia of the animals.

Additional experiment on an animal that already underwent
an experiment
6.   The Committee shall not grant a permit for an additional experiment on
     an animal, on which one experiment already was carried out, unless
     one of the following applies:
     (1) The Committee is convinced that the experiment already carried
          out involved little suffering; when application is made to permit an
          additional experiment on an animal on which more than one
          experiment already was carried out, then the Committee shall
          consider whether the aggregate of previous experiments does not
          justify rejecting the application;
     (2) The animal will be anesthetized at the beginning of the additional
          experiment and will be killed at its conclusion, without regaining
          consciousness in its course.

Economic considerations
7.  The Committee shall not give a permit for an additional experiment on
    an animal only because using an additional animal would involve a
    considerable monetary outlay.

Examination of permits in the Council
8.  Every year the Council shall hold a special session for an examination
    of the permits for additional experiments under section 6, which had

     been issued in the preceding year, in order to weigh whether a change
     of these Rules is necessary.

Training course for the minimalization of suffering
9.   (a) Training in the minimalization of suffering of laboratory animals,
          which is a condition for authorization by the institute director of an
          institute employee as a qualified researcher, shall be by means of
          a course that will be held at the institute, or in one of the ways said
          in section 10.
     (b) The Council shall approve a course after it received the curriculum
          from the institution that conducts it and after it is satisfied that the
          course can train the researcher in the minimalization of suffering
          by the laboratory animals, on which he will conduct experiments
          after he is qualified.
     (c) The person who conducts the course will decide at its conclusion -
          on the basis of academic criteria - whether each of the participants
          met the requirements of the course.
     (d) The course will qualify its participants to conduct experiments on
          the kinds of animals with which the course dealt, and they will
          have to undergo additional training to become qualified for
          experiments on other varieties of animals.
     (e) The course shall include at least the following subjects:
          (1) The definition of environmental and microbiological factors
                 that affect the behavior and the biology of laboratory animals,
                 and how they work;
          (2) A survey of the main genetic groupings of laboratory animals
                 and their influence on the research;
          (3) Detailed ethical rules on the use of animals - the contribution
                 to scientific research, the fundamental principles of
                 minimizing the number of animals in an experiment, finding
                 alternatives to experiments with animals, moderation of
                 experimental methods, legal principles, and the ethical
                 system in the country and in the institution;
          (4) Description of the animal varieties, with which the course
                 deals;
          (5) The significance of having different kinds of equipment and
                 means for the enhancement of research;
          (6) The biology and behavior of animals and the importance of
                 different anatomical variables;
          (7) Particulars of materials, dosages and methods for the
                 minimization of suffering, for reduction of pain, for anesthesia
                 and euthanasia;
          (8) Particulars of methods for injections and for taking blood
                 samples.
     (f) The chairman of the Council shall appoint two council members
          with academic appointments for the constant supervision of
          standards of study at the course; this provision shall not apply to a
          course under academic supervision.

Additional training methods
10. (a) Under exceptional circumstances the director of an institution may
         award qualification to an employee of the institution, if he is
         convinced that that employee has many years of experience in the
         conduct of experiments on animals and consequently is skilled in
         the sphere of minimizing the suffering of laboratory animals.
    (b) The director of an institution may award qualification to an
         employee of the institution, if successfully passed special training
         by a qualified principal investigator who engages in the same
         research (hereafter - the principal investigator), in coordination
         with the veterinarian employed by that institution under section
         12(2) of the Law; such training shall include at least the following:
         (1) Explanations on the correct handling of laboratory animals,
                the use of alternatives, and minimization of the suffering of
                animals used in experiments;
         (2) A practical demonstration of the experiment on animals, in
                which the employee will engage;
         (3) The conduct of at least two experiments on animals by the
                principal investigator in the employee's presence.
         The said qualification shall be only for a six month period, after the
         principal investigator signed an undertaking that every experiment
         on animals carried out by the employee will be under his
         supervision and on his responsibility, and it cannot be extended or
         renewed.
    (c) The director of the institution may grant an employee qualification,
         if he is convinced, on the basis of documents, that the training on
         the minimalization of suffering of laboratory animals, which the
         employee underwent abroad, is an equivalent of the training in the
         course said in section 9.

Effect and validity
11. (a) These Rules shall go into effect 30 days after their publication
          (hereafter - day of effect).
     (b) Section 10(b) is in effect during three years after the day of effect.

                                 SCHEDULE

                                (Section 3(a))

         Application for the Conduct of Experiments on Animals

                                  (omitted)
